#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Database Structure =

|| *Section* || *Description* ||
|| \ || The root section ||
|| \!CurrentUser || Related to current used (logged OS account) ||
|| \!LocalMachine || Related to client computer ||
|| \Databases || Its purpose is to create shared databases ||
|| \!RootStorage || The root of disk storage excluding in-memory sections ||
|| \System || System sections including current status such as alarms, clients, mounted database files ||

 * *\*
 It is the root of the whole namespace. Is is created regardles of availability of database. It is an in-memory system section that is read-only for all users.

----
 * *\!CurrentUser*
 If any application tries to store data local to logged on OS user, just this section should be used. It is mapped to _\!RootStorage\Users\<<!CurrentUserId>>_.

 The _!CurrentUserId_ is an internal identifier of the user. This identifier (UUID format) is OS independent - it is internally translated from OS user. The translation database is stored in section _\!RootStorage\System\Authentication_

----
 * *\!LocalMachine*
 Should be used to store any data related to client computer. It is mapped to _\!RootStorage\Computers\<<!ClientComputerName>>_. 
 
 On existing version can be only the name of computer when the engine is running. The network support is to be implemented in future.

----
 * *\Databases*
 Shared databases across applications or computers (not implemented yet) should be created in just this section.

 Example: _\Databases\!ExampleCadApp\Projects_

----
 * *\!RootStorage*
 In is the root of data physically located disk. It contains the following subsections:
|| System || 'The configuration data used by engine itself (mapping OS users to internal UUIDs) ||
|| Users || The root of all user data (see \!CurrentUser) ||
|| Computers || The root of all machine data (see \!LocalMachine) ||

----
 * *\System*
 It is reserved for internal usage by the running database engine. It contains the following subsections:
|| Status || The status of current resources such as sessions, databasses and alarms ||
|| Temp || Mounted temporary section for each database ||